docs: Add docs for GenSX Cloud (#589)
gensx-inc/gensx: website/docs/src/content/cloud/storage/blob-storage.mdx

---
title: Blob storage
description: Store and retrieve unstructured data with GenSX blob storage
---

# Blob storage

> Blob storage provides zero-configuration persistent storage for your GenSX applications. It enables you to store JSON, text, or binary data and per-agent or per-workflow storage without worrying about managing infrastructure.

Reviewer: The per-agent and per-workflow thing feels confusing.

```suggestion
Blob storage provides zero-configuration persistent storage for your GenSX applications. It enables you to store JSON, text, or binary data storage for your workflows and agents without worrying about managing infrastructure.
```

   ```tsx
   import { BlobProvider } from "@gensx/storage";

   const Workflow = ({ input }) => (
     <BlobProvider>
       <YourComponent input={input} />
     </BlobProvider>
   );
   ```

3. Access blobs within your components using the `useBlob` hook:

   ```tsx
   import { useBlob } from "@gensx/storage";

   const blob = useBlob("your-key.json");
   ```

### Reading blobs

The `useBlob` hook provides simple methods to read different types of data:

```tsx
import * as gensx from "@gensx/core";
import { useBlob } from "@gensx/storage";

const ReadData = gensx.Component("ReadData", async ({ key }) => {
  // Get a reference to a blob
  const blob = useBlob(`data/${key}.json`);

  // Check if the blob exists
  const exists = await blob.exists();
  if (!exists) {
    return { found: false };
  }

  // Read JSON data (returns null if doesn't exist)
  const jsonData = await blob.getJSON();

  // Read as string
  const textData = await blob.getString();

  // Read as binary with metadata
  const binaryData = await blob.getRaw();

  return {
    found: true,
    jsonData,
    textLength: textData?.length,
    contentType: binaryData?.contentType,
  };

> });

Reviewer: This feels super contrived. We would never recommend someone do something like this. probably makes sense to use the same `format` param you use below but honestly i would just make both an example of working with json and then mention the getString/getRaw and people can extrapolate from there.

Ideall this should be code we wouldn't hate if someone copied into their workflow.

```

### Writing blobs

You can write data in various formats:

```tsx
import * as gensx from "@gensx/core";
import { useBlob } from "@gensx/storage";

const WriteData = gensx.Component(
  "WriteData",
  async ({ key, data, format = "json" }) => {
    // Get a reference to a blob

>     const blob = useBlob(`data/${key}`);

Reviewer: include .json above but not here so the ReadData and WriteData components would be incompatible

For scenarios where multiple processes might update the same data, you can use ETags to prevent conflicts:

```tsx
const UpdateCounter = gensx.Component(
  "UpdateCounter",
  async ({ counterName }) => {
    const blob = useBlob(`counters/${counterName}.json`);

    // Get current value and metadata
    const counter = (await blob.getJSON<{ value: number }>()) ?? { value: 0 };
    const metadata = await blob.getMetadata();

    // Update counter
    counter.value += 1;

    try {
      // Save with ETag to prevent conflicts
      await blob.putJSON(counter, {
        etag: metadata?.etag,
      });
      return { success: true, value: counter.value };
    } catch (error) {
      if (error.name === "BlobConflictError") {
        return {
          success: false,
          message: "Counter was updated by another process",
        };
      }
      throw error;
    }
  },
);
```

## Development vs. production

GenSX blob storage works identically in both local development and cloud environments:

- **Local development**: Blobs are stored in the `.gensx/blobs` directory by default
- **Cloud deployment**: Blobs are automatically stored in cloud storage

> No code changes are needed when moving from development to production.

Reviewer: Worth adding a sentence saying that if you don't specify a "kind" that we auto-infer for you based on the env.

Also - in blob this is below use cases but in database it's above; best to make it consistent
